doc_source/instance-select.md, before:

# Selecting the Instance Type for DLAMI<a name="instance-select"></a>

 Selecting the instance type can be another challenge, but we'll make this easier for you with a few pointers on how to choose the best one\. Remember, the DLAMI is free, but the underlying compute resources are not\. 
+  If you're new to deep learning, then you probably want an "entry\-level" instance with a single GPU\.
+  If you're budget conscious, then you will need to start a bit smaller and look at the CPU\-only instances\. 
+  If you're interested in running a trained model for inference and predictions \(and not training\), then you might want to run [Amazon Elastic Inference](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elastic-inference/latest/developerguide/what-is-ei.html)\. This will give you access to a fraction of a GPU, so you can scale affordably\. For high\-volume inference services, you may find that a CPU instance with a lot of memory, or even a cluster of these, is a better solution for you\. 
+  If you're using a large model with a lot of data or a high batch size, then you will need a larger instance with more memory\. You can also distribute your model to a cluster of GPUs\. You may find that using an instance with less memory is a better solution for you if you decrease your batch size\. This may impact your accuracy and training speed\.
+  If you’re interested in running Machine Learning applications using NVIDIA Collective Communications Library \(NCCL\) requiring high levels of inter\-node communications at scale, you might want to use [ Elastic Fabric Adapter \(EFA\)](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/dlami/latest/devguide/tutorial-efa-launching.html)\.

 DLAMIs are not available in every region, but it is possible to copy DLAMIs to the region of your choice\. See [Copying an AMI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/CopyingAMIs.html) for more info\. Each region supports a different range of instance types and often an instance type has a slightly different cost in different regions\. On each DLAMI main page, you will see a list of instance costs\. Note the region selection list and be sure you pick a region that's close to you or your customers\. If you plan to use more than one DLAMI and potentially create a cluster, be sure to use the same region for all of nodes in the cluster\. 
+ For more detail on instances, check out [EC2 Instance Types](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/)\.
+ For a more info on regions, visit [EC2 Regions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/rande.html#ec2_region)\.

So with all of those points in mind, make note of the instance type that best applies to your use case and budget\. The rest of the topics in this guide help further inform you and go into more detail\. 

**Important**  
The Deep Learning AMIs include drivers, software, or toolkits developed, owned, or provided by NVIDIA Corporation\. You agree to use these NVIDIA drivers, software, or toolkits only on Amazon EC2 instances that include NVIDIA hardware\.

**Topics**
+ [Recommended GPU Instances](gpu.md)
+ [Recommended CPU Instances](cpu.md)
+ [Pricing for the DLAMI](pricing.md)

**Next Up**  
[Recommended GPU Instances](gpu.md)

Commit message:

DLAMI Open Source GitHub Markdown Sync - 12/22/21

doc_source/instance-select.md, after:

# Selecting the Instance Type for DLAMI<a name="instance-select"></a>

Consider the following when selecting an instance type for DLAMI\.
+ If you're new to deep learning, then an instance with a single GPU might suit your needs\.
+ If you're budget conscious, then you can use CPU\-only instances\.
+ If you're looking to optimize high performance and cost efficiency for deep learning model inference, then you can use instances with AWS Inferentia chips\.
+ If you're looking to optimize high performance and cost efficiency for deep learning model training, then you can use instances with Habana accelerators\.
+ If you're looking for a high performance GPU instance with an Arm\-based CPU architecture, then you can use the G5g instance type\.
+  If you're interested in running a pretrained model for inference and predictions, then you can attach an [Amazon Elastic Inference](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elastic-inference/latest/developerguide/what-is-ei.html) to your Amazon EC2 instance\. Amazon Elastic Inference gives you access to an accelerator with a fraction of a GPU\.
+ For high\-volume inference services, a single CPU instance with a lot of memory, or a cluster of such instances, might be a better solution\. 
+  If you're using a large model with a lot of data or a high batch size, then you need a larger instance with more memory\. You can also distribute your model to a cluster of GPUs\. You may find that using an instance with less memory is a better solution for you if you decrease your batch size\. This may impact your accuracy and training speed\.
+  If you’re interested in running machine learning applications using NVIDIA Collective Communications Library \(NCCL\) requiring high levels of inter\-node communications at scale, you might want to use [ Elastic Fabric Adapter \(EFA\)](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/dlami/latest/devguide/tutorial-efa-launching.html)\.

For more detail on instances, see [EC2 Instance Types](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/)\.

The following topics provide information about instance type considerations\. 

**Important**  
The Deep Learning AMIs include drivers, software, or toolkits developed, owned, or provided by NVIDIA Corporation\. You agree to use these NVIDIA drivers, software, or toolkits only on Amazon EC2 instances that include NVIDIA hardware\.

**Topics**
+ [Pricing for the DLAMI](#pricing)
+ [DLAMI Region Availability](#region)
+ [Recommended GPU Instances](gpu.md)
+ [Recommended CPU Instances](cpu.md)
+ [Recommended Inferentia Instances](inferentia.md)
+ [Recommended Habana Instances](habana.md)

## Pricing for the DLAMI<a name="pricing"></a>

The deep learning frameworks included in the DLAMI are free, and each has its own open\-source licenses\. Although the software included in the DLAMI is free, you still have to pay for the underlying Amazon EC2 instance hardware\.

Some Amazon EC2 instance types are labeled as free\. It is possible to run the DLAMI on one of these free instances\. This means that using the DLAMI is entirely free when you only use that instance's capacity\. If you need a more powerful instance with more CPU cores, more disk space, more RAM, or one or more GPUs, then you need an instance that is not in the free\-tier instance class\.

For more information about instance selection and pricing, see [Amazon EC2 pricing](http://aws.amazon.com/ec2/pricing/)\.

## DLAMI Region Availability<a name="region"></a>

Each Region supports a different range of instance types and often an instance type has a slightly different cost in different Regions\. DLAMIs are not available in every Region, but it is possible to copy DLAMIs to the Region of your choice\. See [Copying an AMI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/CopyingAMIs.html) for more information\. Note the Region selection list and be sure you pick a Region that's close to you or your customers\. If you plan to use more than one DLAMI and potentially create a cluster, be sure to use the same Region for all of nodes in the cluster\.

For a more info on Regions, visit [EC2 Regions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/rande.html#ec2_region)\.

**Next Up**  
[Recommended GPU Instances](gpu.md)
