doc_source/launch-from-console.md, before:

# EC2 Console<a name="launch-from-console"></a>

**Note**  
To launch an instance with Elastic Fabric Adapter \(EFA\), refer to [these steps\.](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/dlami/latest/devguide/tutorial-efa-launching.html) 

1. Open the [EC2 Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2)\.

1. Note your current region in the top\-most navigation\. If this isn't your desired AWS Region, change this option before proceeding\. For more information, see [EC2 Regions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/rande.html#ec2_region)\.

1. Choose **Launch Instance**\.

1. Search for the desired instance by name:

   1. Choose **AWS Marketplace**, or\.\.\.

   1. Choose **QuickStart**\. Only a subset of available DLAMI will be listed here\. 

   1. Search for Deep Learning AMI\. Also look for the subtype, such as your desired OS, and if you want Base, Conda, Source, etc\.

   1. Browse the options, and then click **Select** on your choice\.

1. Review the details, and then choose **Continue**\.

1. Choose an instance type\.
**Note**  
If you want to use [Elastic Inference](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/elastic-inference.html) \(EI\), click **Configure Instance Details**, select **Add an Amazon EI accelerator**, then select the size of the Amazon EI accelerator\.

1. Choose **Review and Launch**\.

1. Review the details and pricing\. Choose **Launch**\.

**Tip**  
Check out [Get Started with Deep Learning Using the AWS Deep Learning AMI](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/ai/get-started-with-deep-learning-using-the-aws-deep-learning-ami/) for a walk\-through with screenshots\!

**Next Step**  
[Step 2: Connect to the DLAMI](launch-config-connect.md)

Commit message:

DLAMI Open Source GitHub Markdown Sync - 12/22/21

doc_source/launch-from-console.md, after:

# EC2 Console<a name="launch-from-console"></a>

**Note**  
To launch an instance with Elastic Fabric Adapter \(EFA\), refer to [these steps\.](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/dlami/latest/devguide/tutorial-efa-launching.html) 

1. Open the [EC2 Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2)\.

1. Note your current region in the top\-most navigation\. If this isn't your desired AWS Region, change this option before proceeding\. For more information, see [EC2 Regions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/rande.html#ec2_region)\.

1. Choose **Launch Instance**\.

1. Search for the desired instance by name:

   1. Select the DLAMI that is right for you\. Find the DLAMI name as listed in the [release notes](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/dlami/latest/devguide/appendix-ami-release-notes) or find the [DLAMI ID](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/dlami/latest/devguide/find-dlami-id) using the AWS CLI\. 

   1. Choose **Community AMIs**\.

      1. To view a selection of the latest DLAMIs, choose **Quick Start\.**

      1. Choose **AWS Marketplace** to browse additional DLAMIs\. Only a subset of available DLAMIs will be listed here\.

   1. Enter the DLAMI name or search the DLAMI ID\. Browse the options and then click **Select** on your choice\.

1. Review the details, and then choose **Continue**\.

1. Choose an instance type\. For recommendations on DLAMI instance types, see [Instance Selection](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/dlami/latest/devguide/instance-select.html)\.
**Note**  
If you want to use [Elastic Inference](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/elastic-inference.html) \(EI\), click **Configure Instance Details**, select **Add an Amazon EI accelerator**, then select the size of the Amazon EI accelerator\.

1. Choose **Review and Launch**\.

1. Review the details and pricing\. Choose **Launch**\.

**Tip**  
Check out [Get Started with Deep Learning Using the AWS Deep Learning AMI](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/ai/get-started-with-deep-learning-using-the-aws-deep-learning-ami/) for a walk\-through with screenshots\!

**Next Step**  
[Step 2: Connect to the DLAMI](launch-config-connect.md)
